Deploy a Cluster with Palette [Tutorial] (#1267)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/09-registries-and-packs/4.5-deploy-pack.md

---
title: 'Deploy an Add-On Pack'
metaTitle: 'Deploy an Add-On Pack'

> metaDescription: 'How to create and deploy an add-on pack using the manifest files or Helm charts in Spectro Cloud.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metaDescription: 'Learn how to create and deploy an add-on pack using the manifest files or Helm charts in Spectro Cloud.'
```

icon: ''
hideToC: true
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';
import PointsOfInterest from 'shared/components/common/PointOfInterest';
import Tooltip from "shared/components/ui/Tooltip";

# Create and Deploy a Custom Add-On Pack

> Custom add-on packs allow you to deploy Kubernetes applications in clusters and reuse them in multiple deployments. This ensures uniformity across your clusters. The primary use cases for creating custom packs are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom add-on packs allow you to deploy Kubernetes applications in clusters and reuse them in multiple deployments. This ensures uniformity across your clusters. Below are the primary use cases for creating custom packs.
```

> 

Reviewer: Let's add some space between these bullet list items.

- Aggregated configuration and application dependencies simplify deployment and consumption.

- Open-source contributors can add new Kubernetes applications to a custom add-on pack for the community.

- Enterprises can add proprietary Kubernetes applications to a custom add-on pack.

> In this tutorial, you will create a custom add-on pack to package a sample Kubernetes application, [Hello Universe](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe#hello-universe), and deploy that application to a cluster. You will learn to create the pack in two ways, using manifest files and Helm charts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will create a custom add-on pack to package a sample Kubernetes application, [Hello Universe](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe#hello-universe), and deploy that application to a cluster. You will learn two ways to create the pack, using manifest files and Helm charts. 
```

After defining the custom pack, you will set up a registry server, publish the pack to that registry, and configure the registry server in Palette. Lastly, you will create a cluster profile that contains your custom pack and apply the profile to a cluster using either Palette or Terraform.  

# Prerequisites
To complete the tutorial, you will need the following items:

> <br />

Reviewer: The Prerequisites list should be a bullet list.

1. A Spectro Cloud account. Visit [https://console.spectrocloud.com](https://console.spectrocloud.com) to create an account.

> 2. Tenant admin access to Palette for the purpose of adding a new registry server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Tenant admin access to Palette in order to add a new registry server.
```

> 3. A cloud account, such as AWS, Azure, or GCP, added to your Palette project settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. A cloud account, such as AWS, Azure, or GCP added to your Palette project settings. 
```

4. An SSH key created in the region where you will deploy the cluster.

5. [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed on your local machine to start the tutorials container. 

6. Basic knowledge of Docker containers and Kubernetes manifest file attributes.

# Set Up the Tutorial Environment

> You will work in a Docker container pre-configured with the necessary tools for this tutorial. However, you can practice this tutorial in any `linux/amd64` or `x86_64` environment by installing the [necessary tools](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials/blob/main/docs/docker.md#docker) and cloning the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials/) that contains the tutorial files. Here are the steps to start the tutorials container. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will work in a Docker container pre-configured with the necessary tools for this tutorial. However, you can practice this tutorial in any `linux/amd64` or `x86_64` environment by installing the [necessary tools](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials/blob/main/docs/docker.md#docker) and cloning the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials/) that contains the tutorial files. Below are the steps to start the tutorials container. 
```

<br />

Start the Docker Desktop on your local machine and ensure the daemon is available by issuing a command to list the currently active containers.

<br />

```bash
docker ps
```

Download the `ghcr.io/spectrocloud/tutorials:1.0.3` image to your local machine. The Docker image includes the necessary tools. 
<br />

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/spectrocloud/tutorials:1.0.3
```

Next, start the container, and open a bash session into it.
<br />

```bash
docker run --name tutorialContainer --publish 7000:5000 --interactive --tty ghcr.io/spectrocloud/tutorials:1.0.3 bash
```

> If port 7000 on your local machine is unavailable, you can use any other port of your choice. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If port 7000 on your local machine is unavailable, you can use another port of your choice. 
```

<br />

After finalizing all files in the pack directory, the next step is to set up a registry server and publish the pack to that registry, where you can access it directly from Palette. 

<br />

# Set Up the Registry Server

The tutorials environment already has the Spectro registry service and other necessary tools available. The following sections will guide you to start the registry server, expose the service to the external world using [Ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) reverse proxy, and log in to the registry server to push your custom add-on pack to it.   

## Start and Expose the Registry Server
Start the registry server by issuing the following command from the bash session you opened into the tutorials container. 
<br />

```bash
registry serve /etc/spectro/config.yml > /var/log/registry.log 2>&1 &
```

The registry server will start in HTTP mode (not HTTPS). Refer to the [Add a Custom Registry](/registries-and-packs/adding-a-custom-registry) guide to learn more about deploying an HTTPS registry server. 

> Next, expose the registry server to the public so that you can configure it later in Palette. Use Ngrok reverse proxy to expose the registry server listening on port 5000 via an HTTP tunnel using the following command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, expose the registry server to the public so that you can configure it later in Palette. Use Ngrok reverse proxy to expose the registry server listening on port 5000 via an HTTP tunnel by invoking the following command. 
```

<br />

```bash
ngrok http 5000 --log-level debug
```

> The command above will reserve the current bash session and display the status of each HTTP request made to the Ngrok server later in this tutorial. The screenshot below shows the registry server successfully exposed via Ngrok.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command above will reserve the current bash session and display the status of each HTTP request made to the Ngrok server later in this tutorial. The screenshot below shows the registry server successfully exposed via Ngrok.  
```
```suggestion
This command will reserve the current bash session and display the status of each HTTP request made to the Ngrok server later in this tutorial. The screenshot below shows the registry server successfully exposed via Ngrok.  
```

<br /> 

Create a cluster profile and deploy it to a cluster using either Palette or Terraform code.
<br /> 

<Tabs>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="Palette" key="palette_ui">

## Create a Cluster Profile
Switch to the **Default** project scope for creating a cluster profile.  
<br />

![Screenshot of the Palette Default scope.](/tutorials/deploy-pack/registries-and-packs_deploy-pack_default-scope.png)

<br />

Select the **Profile** section in the left **Main Menu** to create a cluster profile that will combine the core infrastructure and add-on layers. Click on the **Add Cluster Profile** button, and provide the details in the wizard that follows. The wizard displays the following sections. 
<br />

### Basic Information
Use the following values in the **Basic Information** section. 

|**Field**|**Value**|
|---|---|
|Name|pack-tutorial-profile|
|Version|`1.0.0`|
|Description|Cluster profile as part of the pack tutorial.|
|Type|Full|
|Tags|`spectro-cloud-education, app:hello-universe, terraform_managed:true`|

Click on **Next** to continue. 
<br />

### Cloud Type

> In the **Cloud Type** section, choose AWS as the infrastructure provider for this tutorial, and click on **Next** at the bottom to move on to the next section.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Cloud Type** section, choose AWS as the infrastructure provider for this tutorial, and click on **Next** at the bottom to move on to the next section.   
```
```suggestion
In the **Cloud Type** section, choose AWS as the infrastructure provider for this tutorial, and click on **Next** to proceed.   
```

<br />

Next, add the following **Hello Universe** pack. This is the custom add-on pack you defined and pushed to the **private-pack-registry** earlier in this tutorial. 

|**Pack Type**|**Registry**|**Pack Name**|**Pack Version**| 
|---|---|---|---|
|App Services | private-pack-registry | Hello Universe | `1.0.x` |

Click on the **Confirm & Create** button to finish adding the Hello Universe pack. 

If there are no errors or compatibility issues, Palette displays the newly created full cluster profile. Verify the layers you added, and click **Next**.    

<br />

![Screenshot of the Profile Layers success.](/tutorials/deploy-pack/registries-and-packs_deploy-pack_profile-layer.png)

<br /> <br />

### Review
Review once more and click **Finish Configuration**  to create the cluster profile. 
<br />

## Create a Cluster
From the **Profile** page,  click on the newly created cluster profile to view its details page. Palette displays all the layers and allows you to edit any of them. 

Click the **Deploy** button to deploy a new cluster. The cluster deployment wizard will displays the following sections. 
<br />

### Basic Information

> Use the following values in the first section, **Basic Information**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following values in the **Basic Information** section. 
```

|**Field** | **Value for the master-pool**| **Value for the worker-pool**|
|---| --- | ---|
|Node pool name| master-pool | worker-pool |
|Number of nodes in the pool| `1` | `1` |
|Allow worker capability| Checked | Not applicable |
|Enable Autoscaler | Not applicable | No |
|Rolling update |  Not applicable | Expand First. <br /> Launch a new node first, then shut down the old one. |

Keep the **Cloud Configuration** the same for the master and worker pools.

|**Field** | **Value**|
|---| --- | ---|
|Instance Type | General purpose `m4.xlarge` <br />A minimum allocation of four CPU cores are required for the master node. |
|Availability zones | Choose any *one* availability zone.<br /> This tutorial example will deploy to the `us-east-2a` availability zone. | 
|Disk size | 60 GiB | 

Click **Next** to continue.    
<br /> 

### Settings 
The **Settings** section displays options for OS patching, scheduled scans, scheduled backups, and cluster role binding. Use the default values, and click on the **Validate** button.      

<br /> 

### Review

> Review all configurations in this section. The **Review** page displays the cluster name, tags, cloud account name, node pools, layers, and an estimated hourly cost. If everything looks good, click on the **Finish Configuration** button to finish deploying the cluster. Deployment may take up to *20 minutes* to finish. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review all configurations in this section. The **Review** page displays the cluster name, tags, cloud account name, node pools, layers, and an estimated hourly cost. If everything looks good, click on the **Finish Configuration** button to finish deploying the cluster. Deployment may take up to 20 minutes to finish. 
```

## Starter Code
Navigate back to your tutorials container bash session to locate the starter Terraform files. If you have closed the terminal session, you can reopen another bash session in the tutorials container using the following command. 
<br />

```bash
docker exec -it tutorialContainer bash
```

Switch to the **/terraform/pack-tf** directory, which contains the Terraform code for this tutorial. 
<br />

```bash
cd /terraform/pack-tf
```

## Set Up the Spectro Cloud API Key

To get started with Terraform code, you need a Spectro Cloud API key to authenticate and interact with the Palette API endpoint. To add a new API key, log in to Palette, click on the user **User Menu** at the top right, and select **My API Keys**, as shown in the screenshot below. 

<br />

![Screenshot of generating an API key in Palette.](/tutorials/deploy-pack/registries-and-packs_deploy-pack_generate-api-key.png )

<br />

Below are the steps to add and export an API key:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br />
```
